>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
From ashram to CEO
at 26 years old,
this one woman's journey
is both inspiring
and filled with
challenges as well.
Amanda Holmes is my guest.
She is the CEO of Chet
Holmes International, which
she stepped into as CEO after
the loss of her father, Chet
Holmes.
And Amanda is joining us
to talk about the legacy
that her father began,
along with Tony Robbins,
a long time ago, and
how she now continues
to help nurture businesses
using intuition and proven
equations for growth.
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>AMANDA HOLMES: It's such
a pleasure to be here.
>>LISA: You have a
beautiful way of combining
so many different
worlds, Amanda.
And I love that you are
just a perfect person
to have on Gaiam TV
because you really
do combine the yoga and
business and intuition and life
challenges.
You're just-- you live
such a full life at 26.
It's awesome.
>>HOLMES: Oh, thank you.
Well, I'm so appreciative
to be here, Lisa, really.
>>LISA: Well, so
tell me a little bit
about your childhood,
growing up and having
a father in the personal
development world.
What was that like?
How were you parented
any different?
Yeah, any different.
>>HOLMES: Well, I look at Kayla,
and I say, that's exactly it.
>>LISA: Really?
Really?
My daughter, yes.
>>HOLMES: Your daughter
is me when I was her age.
And just growing up
with the knowledge
that what you say really makes
a difference in your world.
For example, if I ever
said, I can't or I
don't think I could do
that, my father would say,
what's that called?
And my brother and I would
say, failure reinforcement.
>>LISA: Oh, funny.
>>HOLMES: It was the
most hilarious thing.
Always.
>>LISA: Can't is a four
letter word in our household.
>>HOLMES: I knew it!
There we go.
I mean, everything from
learning positive affirmations
before I go to bed--
Grades come easily to me.
--to him printing out what
affirmations I should have
and putting them on the
inside of my bathroom mirror.
I opened it up one day, and
there were all my affirmations.
I'm like, oh, thanks,
dad, at nine years old.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Now, how did he get
his start, your dad?
>>HOLMES: I mean, Tony
Robbins was it, really.
It was a huge part of it.
>>LISA: And did he meet Tony
or was he already on the path?
>>HOLMES: Yeah.
17 years, he went after
having Tony as a partner.
17 years.
A big part of what
my father teaches
is pig-headed discipline
and determination.
And if that's not it,
I don't know what is.
It's amazing.
>>LISA: But you went
the opposite direction
because then you went and
lived in an ashram for a very
long time.
>>HOLMES: I still have
the determination.
>>LISA: OK.
But in a different way.
>>HOLMES: It's just different.
Yeah.
>>LISA: That's, I think,
the way that it should be,
in my worldview.
So what did you learn?
And why did you even go to
an ashram in the first place?
>>HOLMES: Well, it's
such a crazy story.
So originally, I was
a singer/songwriter.
And I went to college, did a
couple of records that way.
And then my father became ill.
And I stopped everything
I was doing, and I said,
I'm going to be a caregiver
for him, full-time.
We're going to find a
cure for his leukemia.
He was diagnosed with leukemia.
Very alternative.
We had two people on staff going
through hundreds of submissions
of different alternative
medicines, everything
from Deepak Chopra to
psychics to gurus and monks.
And I picked up
Reiki at that time.
So I was taking
away his headaches
and his nausea every
day like clockwork.
How's your headache?
It's a 10.
OK.
Let me do some work.
How's your headache
now, scale of 1 to 10?
It's a 2.
And I thought that
that was amazing.
And then, fast forward.
He ended up getting skin
cancer on top of the leukemia
already from a light
therapy that we tried.
And came back into the hospital.
And they said, you
have 30 legions
this big all over your body.
Stop doing the alternatives.
We're going to incision,
cut out all of those,
stitch them back up, do chemo on
top of the leukemia you already
have, so the chemo that he was
already taking for leukemia.
And don't do any alternatives.
Guruji walked into my life.
And within a week of
her work, skin cancer
was falling off of my father.
I'm getting chills
just talking about it.
>>LISA: Wow.
Me, too.
>>HOLMES: And the doctor said--
It was amazing.
I'm sorry.
I'm bringing myself
back there for a second
and just going, wow.
I just can't even believe that.
They said, it's a miracle.
Whatever you're doing,
don't stop there.
But don't do any
other alternatives.
>>LISA: Wow.
You're talking about
bridging both worlds again.
It seems to be a theme with you.
>>HOLMES: Very interesting.
So I went from doing
some energy healing that
was like nausea and
headaches to this woman knows
how to cure cancer.
I've got to learn
what she has to offer.
Right?
I mean, you can't deny that.
That was right before my eyes.
>>LISA: And in front of the
medical community as well
to be able to see.
So the skin cancer
eventually got eradicated.
>>HOLMES: Yep.
>>LISA: And then,
how did he eventually
pass from the leukemia?
>>HOLMES: So he did his
bone marrow transplant.
And him and Guruji
parted ways at one point.
And I was still a devout
lover of what she did.
So after he was seemingly
good, everything
had-- the dust had
settled, I jumped over
what was supposed to be only two
weeks with some monks in Japan,
turned into six months in Asia.
I went to Singapore
and ended up living
in her ashram for
about five months.
And I said to my
family and friends,
I don't want to go home.
I love it here.
I'm serving people.
I'm really healing, not just
me, but everyone around me.
And it's so beautiful.
Why would I come home?
Forget my earthly possessions.
I'll just sit here and
meditate and help people.
>>LISA: What did you do
there for the five months
that you were there?
What was the experience like?
>>HOLMES: Oh my gosh.
Four AM chants.
And from my music background,
I took to that very easily
because originally,
I was like, I
can't sit still to save my life.
That's really difficult for me.
But to be able to sit
and chant was something
that I knew from singing.
So having that repetitive
mantra going really
made me feel really
comfortable, and then would
put me into this state
that was euphoric.
People talk to me
about drugs and what
it feels like to
have a drug trip.
I've never done drugs
before, but I'm like,
I know what you're
talking about.
I had this meditation thing
that I did this morning.
Let me tell you, it
was pretty trippy.
>>LISA: You reach states of
bliss and Kundalini rises.
>>HOLMES: All of it.
>>LISA: How did you learn
from, specifically, your guru?
What did she teach you that
changed you as a person?
>>HOLMES: The biggest
takeaway that I
would say that she
gave me was learning
how to look for the
answers within myself.
And especially when I became
CEO of a multimillion dollar
company, where every employee
is 20 years my senior,
hundreds of employees, and
my partner's Tony Robbins,
I'm like, what?
You know?
And I didn't know who to trust.
And it was rough at
first to know really
who to believe in and
know who to go to.
And at some point it
just became obvious
that I need to find the answers
here, find the answers here.
And of course, relying
on the people around me
to give me all of
that information,
but, ultimately, I
make the decision.
And that's when my
whole world changed.
>>LISA: Did you and your father
ever have a conversation about,
you're going to take
over the business?
>>HOLMES: He would
have loved that.
He used to talk about
it when I was a kid.
He would be like, you could
take over the family business.
I'm like, pfft, dad.
What are you talking about?
>>LISA: I'm twelve.
>>HOLMES: I know.
I'm like, I want to
play music in the trees.
That's what I want to do.
I've always wanted
to help people.
It's always been--
I mean, my music was about
overcoming obstacles.
With the healing, it was
about healing people.
And now, I never
would have guessed--
As soon as I signed in to being
a part of serving as my highest
purpose, they were like, OK.
Two days later, the
doctors called, said,
you need to come home.
Your father's passing away.
Six weeks later, he passed away.
So it was almost like I
signed in, and they said, OK.
Your lesson isn't
to be in an ashram
or under tree meditating.
It's we're going to put
you in the real world.
We're going to give
you a lot of power.
you a lot of people.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
Can I ask you about
those six weeks?
When you were with
your dad, at that time,
was it a healing
process for you?
>>HOLMES: That's amazing that
you actually point that out.
That's so crazy.
>>LISA: Was it a transition?
Did you help him?
>>HOLMES: My mom and brother--
I feel like those six weeks,
they didn't know
that he was passing.
And it wasn't until
the very last moments
that the doctors said, we
can't do anything else,
that they said, really?
They looked around and
went, he's supposed to live.
I mean, you meet my father.
He was Superman.
He took care of everybody.
He was larger than life.
So I came back with the
mindset of he's going.
Everything I need to
do is settle the things
that I had that--
Being a caregiver,
it's a tough job.
>>LISA: You were 23, 24, 25.
This is just a
couple of years ago.
Yeah.
So I didn't mean to interrupt.
So those six weeks,
that process--
>>HOLMES: It was all
about just making sure
that he was OK, making sure
that he was comfortable,
and knowing that he was
going, and doing everything
in my power to make sure that I
said everything I needed to say
and that I truly loved him.
And I got that from Guruji.
I didn't get that--
That's a blessing
beyond blessings.
His last moments, I can
remember whispering in his ear,
I have it.
I can take care of this for you.
I will take care
of this for you.
Don't you worry.
Instead of why are you going?
What's happening?
It was, don't you worry.
Uh.
>>LISA: Did that enable him,
do you think, to transition
more easily?
>>HOLMES: I think so.
>>LISA: Do you think?
Yeah.
Have you had any
contact since then?
>>HOLMES: Well, that's--
>>LISA: Sorry.
>>HOLMES: Well, for the
longest time, I didn't want it.
And I had nightmares up
until about a year and a half
ago of my dad every night.
I mean, multiple times
a week, I would just--
And it would be either in the
hospital or just something.
And I think I was
fighting wanting
to see him because I was
too afraid of knowing if--
>>LISA: The trauma.
Yeah, a lot.
And so have you since
then been able to--
And was he ever a
spiritual person?
>>HOLMES: Definitely.
Definitely.
I mean, he sat me
down when I was
seven years old in
front of a candle--
It's interesting that you say.
I wanted to bring a candle.
He sat me down in front
of a candle and said,
you have the ability,
with your mind,
to make that candle go out
if you can focus on it.
So I really thought that
I had magical powers
from like age seven.
>>LISA: Did you do it?
>>HOLMES: No.
>>LISA: You're still
working on that one.
>>HOLMES: It was like
watching Drew Barrymore
in "Firestarter."
Did you ever see that?
>>LISA: No.
But I can imagine it.
>>HOLMES: OK.
Yeah, so he had me--
>>LISA: Staring at
this candle forever.
>>HOLMES: I remember hours.
I mean, it felt like hours.
I'm sure it wasn't hours
now that I think back.
But very spiritual always.
Every day was a prayer
about all of the clients
that we served, all of the
employees that we have.
Make sure that they make the
highest intention of decisions.
>>LISA: So he had a certain
amount of mindfulness in his
practice, in--
>>HOLMES: Always.
>>LISA: --personal development.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
We're going to take a look here
at a clip of her father, Chet
Holmes, talking about a very
important quote by Henry David
Thoreau.
Take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: So you're
65% of the way to a close
if you just do the first
two things really well.
And most people don't do the
first two things really well.
So methods for developing
rapport, again, keep it simple.
Be their favorite cheerleader.
Have tremendous empathy.
Be more interested in them
than anyone else has ever been.
Talk about everyone's
favorite person.
And who is that?
>>AUDIENCE: Them.
>>CHET HOLMES: Exactly.
Find the common ground,
common interest.
You want to escalate
the bonding process?
Find something that you have
in common with the person.
It's amazing how fast it will
escalate the bonding process.
Like you discover you like
the same kind of music
or the same artist or
something, and wam.
The rapport just
builds like crazy.
So words to live by.
Thoreau said, "Maturity is
when all of your mirrors
turn into windows."
How many people have
heard that before?
That's killer, like you
could live your life by that.
Read it again.
"Maturity is when all of your
mirrors turn into windows."
Every day, that means
more and more to me.
>>LISA: OK.
So the quote, "Maturity is
where all of your mirrors
turn into windows."
How did that affect the
way he lived his life?
>>HOLMES: Huge.
I mean, I've been hearing
that quote my entire life.
And it's really--
When he passed away,
the amount of people
that came out and said, he
believed in me like nobody did,
it's because of that quote.
I keep getting chills.
What are you doing to me, Lisa?
His questions were always,
what are you doing now?
What would be your
wildest dream?
What would that look like,
and how can we get you there?
And that was his
conversation with everybody.
And it didn't matter
who they were.
I mean, I had
billionaires come to me
and say, he believed
in me like nobody.
I'm like, you're a billionaire.
What do you mean?
But he always asked
about the dream.
It was always about the dream.
>>LISA: So what does that mean?
Maturity is when all of our
mirrors turn into windows.
>>HOLMES: It's the
basis of everything
that he lived in his life.
It's not focusing on
yourself, but, instead,
looking to others.
It's sitting at a restaurant,
and a waiter comes up and asks
you something and you
go, what's your name?
Sit down.
Where do you come from?
What's your family like?
Oh, you know what.
That sounds like
an amazing family.
Here's $100.
Go have fun with
your family tonight.
OK?
Just that presence and
looking beyond the mirrors
into the windows of other
people's soul, I guess.
That must be what he did
because it was phenomenal.
>>LISA: You obviously
got this influence
of intuition and spiritual
growth from somewhere.
It seems to be that that's
what was the underlying
theme of his life.
Yet on stage, he didn't
teach spirituality.
He taught personal development,
which is very linked.
>>HOLMES: Well, he taught
sales, marketing, leadership.
But it was-- everything within
it had those fundamentals.
Like I was just talking to
Eben Pagan, David Deangelo,
he used to teach about the
love guru, or whatever,
teaching girls how to pick up--
or guys to pick up on chicks.
And he says to me,
you know, Amanda,
I was never teaching
dating advice.
I was teaching how
to be your true self.
>>LISA: And that's
what you believe
that your father was teaching?
Yes.
And now, you have chosen
to carry on his legacy.
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: What was it
like when you started?
You mentioned that
you were young--
>>HOLMES: It was a lot.
>>LISA: --in a company.
Yeah.
>>HOLMES: It was
very overwhelming.
>>LISA: Was it rough
at the beginning?
Did you not believe in yourself?
How did that go?
>>HOLMES: My father and I
were born on the same day.
Very few father-daughter
relationships
are like what I
had with my father.
And to lose that, even
though I was prepared,
even though I know
it was coming--
>>LISA: You never are.
>>HOLMES: Yeah.
Like I said, I couldn't sleep.
So I'm trying to be there
in business meetings,
but all the while thinking,
what can I provide?
What can I give here?
I used age as a big
reason why I could never
do anything of substance
within the organization.
And over time, I realized--
>>LISA: Wait.
Stop.
What do you mean by that?
>>HOLMES: Because I felt that
everyone else was in their 40s,
50s, 60s.
I'm in my 20s.
And I'm sitting here,
going, oh my gosh.
I need gray hair to
be able to do this.
>>LISA: It's an
interesting point.
>>HOLMES: Someone dye
me some hair here.
>>LISA: Yes.
You speak to the
Millennials, in terms
of that is a belief
system that some
hold onto that are breaking
the barriers about.
>>HOLMES: So many more
CEOs that are young.
And it's phenomenal to me.
I love to see that.
Yes.
>>LISA: Major heads of studios--
>>HOLMES: Mark Zuckerberg.
>>LISA: --creating
a different way.
But at the same time, so you
had this generation divide.
How did you gain the respect
of that older generation that
did have a lot more
time in the business?
>>HOLMES: Well,
there is no denying
that I am my father's daughter.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HOLMES: I hate to say that.
Beyond that, I
realized that how much
I cared about my
father's legacy--
And I-- knowing him as a man,
I knew that where all of his
business came from is because of
his giving nature, because of--
He was like Santa Claus
reincarnated, basically,
would describe my father.
And that carried over to all
of his business methodology.
So then when I came in with
all the love in my heart
and realized, let's put all of
these limiting beliefs behind
and realized that
I can bring a lot--
I have a heart the
size of-- a big heart.
I just have a big heart,
and I just want to share it.
>>LISA: Did you make
any changes initially?
>>HOLMES: Not initially.
As time went on, it was
really my organization
that made me step up.
I saw the people around
me, and they're saying,
Amanda, you keep asking
the right questions.
Speak up more often.
And I have so much to
thank about my intuition.
That was just such
a huge part of it.
And I understand my
father's methodology
because I watched him
do it my entire life.
My bedtime stories were
about sales and marketing,
what he did that day.
>>LISA: Well, let's talk about
some of the sales and marketing
techniques that come
in with this foundation
that you bring into it,
which is adding intuition
to branding and marketing,
which is a brilliant way to kind
of infuse or bring
together both worlds.
How do you do that?
How have you changed
certain aspects
of what your father has
taught with infusing
your skills, your abilities,
your talents with intuition
and guidance into the
sales and marketing world?
>>HOLMES: Well, there is so much
that's holy ground of my father
that's just timeless that
I would never even dream
to change, because the way
that people interact, building
rapport with somebody,
figuring out what they need,
figuring out how to serve them
and give them something that
will truly make their life
better, that's timeless.
I don't have any plans
of rewriting the book.
>>LISA: That's good.
But you're also a yogini.
So you've got to
bring that into it.
Right?
>>HOLMES: So for
example, we just
did this whole
campaign, how I'm just
giving a whole bunch
of education for free.
And in it we're talking
about how to cold call.
And the first step I added
in, take a deep breath,
and I went through a
whole breathing exercise.
That's just one small example
of a much bigger picture
of how when I take my
father's methodologies--
The different formats
that we have--
So my dad talks a lot
about direct mail.
And he may say the
word fax or pager.
You know?
It's my job to take those
roots and blossom them
into a Lead Magnet or a
Facebook page or something
that you're doing on Gaiam TV.
It's different modalities,
just like healing.
>>LISA: But it's the same
base is what you're saying.
>>HOLMES: Exactly.
>>LISA: Got it.
OK.
So we're going to
take a look here
at a video that talks
about a sales model
that Chet Holmes describes.
And you can see the
heart-centered business style
that he comes from.
Take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: Chiropractor
in the Yellow Pages.
You go to the
Yellow Pages, right?
You're a chiropractor.
You go to the Yellow Pages.
There's 400 other chiropractors
in the Yellow Pages.
So we created an ad
for a chiropractor that
said, "Before you
hire a chiropractor,
there's three things
you better know.
Call us, and we'll teach
you that for free."
So picture yourself.
You're in the Yellow
Pages, looking
at all these chiropractor ads.
And one of them says, before you
decide which chiropractor, know
these three things.
We'll give it to you for free.
They went from getting, I think
it was like 17 phone calls
a month to five
phone calls a day.
And they were preempting
the competition.
Is that a strategic objective?
How can you preempt
your competition?
What can you offer, no matter
what it is that you sell,
that your person's
going to say, well,
let me check that
out before I buy?
Because is this preemptive?
So again, what I said in the
last workshop is how can you
help your client
be more successful?
There's an example.
You can help your client be
more successful by teaching them
the six most important things
they should know before they
buy a product like yours.
And it should be
full of market data
because, if you look at
your strategic objectives,
and one of them was raise
your credibility, right?
Is it going to raise
your credibility
if you've got a thing
like that in your pocket
when you're talking to
me about buying a car?
Yes or yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>CHET HOLMES: OK.
Is it going to position
you as more of an expert?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>CHET HOLMES: Is it going
to give you more influence?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>CHET HOLMES: Is it going
to help you be more trusted?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>CHET HOLMES: More respected?
>>CHET HOLMES: Is it
worth doing, then?
>>LISA: OK.
So in that video, he talked
about a buying pyramid.
What is that?
Tell me a little bit about that.
>>HOLMES: Phenomenal concept.
I mean, if you ever have some
kind of product or service--
So imagine that
I'm a chiropractor.
And I want to teach
chiropractic to people,
and I know that I'm
a great chiropractor.
But as I walk up
to somebody and I
try to talk to them
about chiropractic,
they go, no, you're an ad.
I'm not interested.
Nope, that's a
banner ad or nope,
that's another
salesperson calling me.
So many people are so
cluttered by the amount of ads
that we have in every day.
How do you get past that?
How do you get past that, even
if you're a great chiropractor?
Very difficult.
So the buying pyramid
is the perfect example
of if you broke down
all of your buyers.
I wish I had a piece of paper.
But imagine--
So people that are
watching, draw a triangle.
The top 3% are people--
So if you say 100
people pass by something
that you have, an ad on a bus.
100 people pass by it.
3% of those people are currently
buying your product or service
right now.
So for a chiropractor, 3% are
interested in chiropractic,
and they're looking
currently for a chiropractor.
Or you're a car company, and
someone's interested in a car.
Oh, 3%--
Majority of the time, 3%--
Studies show 3% are interested
in buying right now.
7%--
So, pyramid, 3%--
7% are interested in buying,
but not really right now.
It's like, oh, I've heard
of that chiropractic thing.
Maybe I should go and
look, check that out,
not quite buying now.
Same with a car.
Oh, you know, I should get a car
in the next couple of months.
So they're interested.
So that's only 10% of
that buying pyramid that
are interested in your product.
>>LISA: Wow.
The rest, 90% are not.
>>HOLMES: Exactly.
You're quick.
So if you break it down,
30% are just oblivious,
don't know anything
about chiropractic,
don't even know that
they're interested.
Then there's another
30% that think
that they're not interested.
I've heard of that
chiropractic thing.
I don't think it's
really for me.
And then the last 30% know
they're not interested.
I've heard about that.
I had a bad experience.
I would never go back
to a chiropractor.
So the way that my father
used education-based marketing
is writing something or
giving some kind of value
that doesn't just
affect the top 10%.
It affects the entire
buying pyramid.
>>LISA: So these are
business tips and techniques
that you can
actually use but then
turn it around to
appeal with rapport.
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: So learning about
chiropractic and how it helps
in healing and so forth
is what you would give,
instead of a business card and
a sales pitch or a cold call.
>>HOLMES: Yeah.
Instead of talking
about yourself,
you're talking about them.
And you're talking about
what interests them.
>>LISA: Where
would you put that?
>>HOLMES: It could be anywhere.
Let's say, in--
You're probably going
to do a clip of that,
so I won't talk about that.
Let's say someone types
in Google, chiropractor.
And a bunch of
chiropractors come up.
You want to have,
instead of saying, hey,
I'm a chiropractor.
I'm really great.
This is my pricing.
Instead say, here's
the four things
that you need to know
before you go and engage
with a chiropractor.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
That's great.
So that's building
rapport, right?
>>HOLMES: Yeah.
I mean, it definitely
builds rapport.
That's one of the
many things it does.
>>LISA: It builds trust.
>>HOLMES: It builds trust.
It builds credibility.
It builds authority.
You're an expert in your field.
Market data.
Market data is huge.
If you can use market data
within what you're doing,
instead of talking about
your products or service,
you're talking
about statistics,--
>>LISA: Tips, facts.
>>HOLMES: --case studies.
Yes.
>>LISA: Got it.
Got it.
Great.
Great point.
OK.
Let's take a look
here at another piece,
where Chet Holmes is talking
about building rapport, a very,
very important technique.
Take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: Here's
the thing, if I
have a really good
relationship with you,
it's a violation
of our relationship
for you to advertise
in a competitor
without approaching me about it.
Does that make sense?
That's the kind of
control you need
to have in your marketplace.
They're never going
to go and hire or use
one of your competitors if you
have deep rapport with them.
It's like the bulletproofing
to make sure you cannot be hurt
in your industry.
So rapport tools are essential.
Market data equals
serious rapport
because it establishes
tremendous respect.
Any time you start
teaching someone something,
you take a position
of authority.
So you want to make sure
that you have information
that helps your clients succeed.
Remember what I said.
The best strategic
position for all of you
is to find ways to help
your clients succeed.
You can't help but
want to reciprocate
someone who helps you succeed.
Does that make sense?
So that should be part
of every person's job.
And if it's not natural--
And I've had
salespeople who were
fantastic closers are
not natural bonders.
So I created situations, and
environments, and exercises,
and tools, like those parties
we threw at every trade show.
They were designed to get
our salespeople to bond
with the clients
in the industry.
And it worked really well.
We were bulletproof.
Couldn't touch us, nobody
could for the whole
reign I had there.
It was unbelievable.
So let's do a workshop
on building rapport.
>>LISA: So are there
stories or examples
that you saw that your
father put this into practice
in his life or in his business?
>>HOLMES: Definitely.
>>LISA: Some stories.
>>HOLMES: Every
prospect or a person
that he wanted to work with, he
would always go after them as
if they were going
to be his friend.
And I can say that he worked
with all of his friends.
And he built a relationship
that will last.
And that's how you build a
business that's bulletproof
is by cultivating
those relationships.
And I'll give you a
little nugget here.
One question that he used to ask
people over dinner, his clients
that he would spend numerous
hours with, he would ask,
if you could go back
to the age of 15
with everything you
know now, but you
would lose everything you
have, would you do it?
>>LISA: Interesting.
So you would lose your
possessions, your house
and all of that?
>>HOLMES: Your kids.
>>LISA: Just your knowledge.
>>HOLMES: You know how
you raised your kids.
You know what you
did in your career.
Would you go back, and
would you relive it?
>>LISA: Hmm, no.
I'm totally happy
with where I am.
>>HOLMES: So that's
a beautiful answer.
But it's questions
like that that
go deeper into
who the person is.
It goes back to the dreamer.
What's your dream?
Further than the surface
of, oh, you have kids.
Oh, what are their names?
>>LISA: It forces you to
look at what you have now
and how grateful you
are and how much you've
worked to be in
this place in life.
Yeah, it does definitely.
And if you're not there,
then yes, it would make
sense to go back.
It's a great way of looking in
and reflecting on your life,
or finding another way to
reflect back onto your life.
That's beautiful.
He also talks about working
smarter, not harder, which is--
>>HOLMES: Huge.
>>LISA: Yes, because
I equate hard work--
We've all learned this.
You know, you work in the
fields, you get the fruit.
You get the vegetable.
You work hard.
You labor.
But that doesn't
necessarily hold true
in the business world,
especially with technology
these days.
How have you used that or
changed that differently
in your business now?
>>HOLMES: Well,
anything to scale,
if you want to grow a business,
if you want to grow your life,
if you--
The process of reflecting
back on what you have--
My father says, one hour a week.
Spend one hour a week
working on your business,
instead of in it.
And this equates to life.
Reflect back on what
have you done this week?
What does your week look like?
Can you reevaluate and
figure out, OK, this
is how I'm going to
live my next week.
This is what I'm
going to automate
so that I don't have
to deal with that.
This is what I'm going to
solve because I noticed
that this problem
keeps coming up.
What do I need to do?
>>LISA: Change, too.
Change really causes
you to reflect.
And sometimes that
change happens
when you're not ready for
it in business and in life.
And it causes you really to take
a look at what means something.
That's a good reflection tool.
He talks also about a
specific sales model.
It's called, oh, the
core story sales model.
What is that?
It seems a lot of the
company is based on that.
Right?
>>HOLMES: Huge, the
education-based marketing.
The example of a chiropractor--
So somebody that has a beautiful
product or service that
could change the world--
We don't even know.
--and people aren't
interested in it,
getting their attention by that
education with market data,
entertaining people,
giving something of value.
Instead of saying, hey,
I want to talk about me,
it's, hey, let's figure out you.
Let's work through
what you need.
Let's get your attention
through market data.
>>LISA: Could testimonials
work in that core story?
>>HOLMES: Yes.
It's later on in the process.
Core story is
really about getting
not just the buying now, not
just that top 10% of the buying
pyramid, the entire pyramid.
How do you do that?
By instead of saying, hey, I'm
a chiropractor, say learn--
OK.
I'm trying to think of all
of the different core stories
we've done.
I'll use a safe example.
So we have a client that
sells safes to schools.
And schools have just
not been picking it up.
They're just not interested
in what they have to offer.
And they've been doing
it for five years.
We currently are working with
them on their core story.
And in the last month,
they've gotten more response
from schools than they have
in the last five years.
In just one month.
>>LISA: Wanting to buy safes?
>>HOLMES: Yes.
And it's because instead of
coming up to them and saying,
hey, guys.
You want to buy safes?
No.
OK.
I'll come back later.
Want to buy safes?
It's me, me, me, my product,
my product, my product.
Instead, coming in
and saying, there's
four things that you need
to know about your school
if you want to increase
the amount of people that
are coming to your school,
increase admissions, decrease
the likelihood of violence and
theft happening in your school,
because we built a
whole story around all
of the crazy things
that happen with theft--
The amount of college
students that experience theft
is unreal.
And it's even higher
from the people
that they're living with.
It says that their own roommates
are stealing from them.
So to bring that
up and point it out
to the school administration
and say, not only
are your students stressed
because they're afraid
that their stuff is
going to get stolen.
What does that do you?
Do you feel comfortable
in your environment?
What about admissions?
When people make a decision
where they're going to go--
>>LISA: Parents, yes, yes,
it's all about safety.
>>HOLMES: One of the
top reasons is safety.
And teaching them that and
bringing something of value
and really being an expert
on their needs, then you say,
here's a solution.
>>LISA: That is so much better
than an annoying phone call.
>>HOLMES: Do you
want to buy a safe?
No.
Why would I want to buy a safe?
Well now, because you know
that it links directly
to your admissions,
it links directly
to making sure that your
students have a better
experience, that they
feel safe, that they feel
that their things
are protected--
>>LISA: That is great.
That is great.
OK.
Let's take a look here at what
Chet Holmes is talking about
in terms of grabbing
someone's attention,
but without doing it
in an annoying way.
Take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: So
your tonality actually
has five times more impact
than the words that you use.
And not consciously, but
subconsciously, the prospect's
subconscious picks up every
subtle nuance of your tonality.
Understand that
to have authority
you end on the down note.
So to--
Good evening.
Is this Jeffrey Hall?
Do you see the difference?
When you go up like
this at the end,
you sound like a salesperson.
And the one that kills me
is, is this Jeffrey Hall?
Yeah.
How you doing today?
I tell my salespeople, don't ask
people how you're doing today
because you sound
like a salesperson.
I never say to anybody--
When I was cold
calling and trying
to get Michael Eisner
on the telephone, when
he got on the phone, I don't
go, how you doing today?
Yeah, Michael, hi.
This is Chet Holmes.
Right to business.
I want him to feel the authority
of that thing in the first five
seconds.
So all of you salespeople,
will you please stop saying,
how are you doing today?
Just drop it from
your vocabulary.
That's as bad as, thank
you for your business
or thank you for your time.
OK?
Ending on the up note tells
them you're a salesperson.
Practice sounding
like a newscaster.
They are trained
to have authority.
Mr. Jones, Hugh Downs.
>>LISA: OK.
So you help medium, large,
small businesses really
learn how to reform their
stories so that they
can learn-- or they can
actually increase their sales.
That's the bottom line.
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: So once they have that
rolling and things are going
well for them, what
about the inner office?
Because when you take
that type of growth,
you need to pull everyone
up to that speed.
So time management
is a huge issue
for myself and many others.
Yes.
>>HOLMES: And a
majority of the people
can't implement those
kinds of strategies
without the time management.
>>LISA: Ah.
So that's the first step.
That's the first
chapter of the book.
That's the beginning.
>>HOLMES: Yep.
>>LISA: OK.
So what are some techniques
that you use around efficiency
around time?
>>HOLMES: Huge.
I mean, I just-- I
go back to the book.
I go back to the
book all the time.
Touch it once.
Oh, that's so hard.
I'm like, oh, I want
to read that email four
different times.
But how many hours do you lose
a year re-reading an email?
And it's constantly.
It's a constant, ever-evolving,
training and mastering of--
OK.
In the email subject
line, are you
changing that subject
line every time you
send an email so
that you can actually
find it when you come back?
>>LISA: What do you
do on your phone?
I mean, do you get sucked
into the emails on your--
>>HOLMES: Oh, it's
definitely difficult.
>>LISA: Always there, yes.
How do you choose what
to pay attention to,
what to answer on your
phone, what to wait and give
a response to when you get home?
I mean, do you have a
way of managing that?
>>HOLMES: It really breaks
down into impact areas.
So this could be for a CEO where
they pick, which for us, it's
the different divisions
that we have in our company.
For somebody it might be health,
their family life, their work
environment, their fitness.
And you pick those
different areas,
and then you focus on them
for a certain amount of time
every week.
So whether it's one hour a week,
the one hour a week working
on your business.
That's the way to really
figure out, manage, OK,
that's something from--
Like I know you have many
businesses, putting that into,
OK, this is when I'm going
to handle this business.
This is when I'm going
to handle that business,
and really chunking it down.
And the whole process
of doing the to-do list
and figuring out what
the top priorities are,
and-- the six steps
are so important.
>>LISA: So important.
Now, we're going to take a
look at that in just a second.
But you mention a
great point here,
where we look at ourselves as--
We could look at ourselves
as our own business.
We have our personal
development.
We have our health development.
We have our relationships.
We have our living
spaces and stuff.
If you take that
wheel and look at it,
you're saying
spend an hour a day
on development of each
one of those things.
Like you can still go work
out every day of the week,
but you need to work on
the development of what
that working out is.
>>HOLMES: That's how you grow.
>>LISA: I see.
Beautiful.
Beautifully said.
All right.
Let's take a look at this.
Chet Holmes talking
about some of the six
steps of productivity.
Take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: For me.
OK.
So touch it once is the
number one rule, number one
rule of time management.
The average office
worker spends a month
per year re-reading
the same information
without taking action.
So if you touch it,
you deal with it.
You create a file.
So even in my briefcase, I
have files for everything.
So when my assistant--
I'm going on a trip.
She goes into my
briefcase and puts
the itinerary in this file,
the contract in this file
that I'll be
discussing, the checks I
want to hand out to
somebody in this file.
They're all in files.
Everything is organized.
OK?
It should be in a file.
Let's talk about
computer organization.
So I am on the
phone all the time
with people who work for me
who say-- I'll say to them,
you know, there
was that article I
did about hiring top producers.
Why don't you use
that as the basis?
Oh, yeah, if I can find that.
Click, click, click.
Three clicks, and
I have the article.
OK?
Anything on my computer,
I'm five clicks away from it
at the most.
OK?
So files for everything.
So I keep everything
in client file.
And then I have
the presentations,
which are where all
the core stories are.
And there might be
10 drafts of that.
Right?
A core story's a living,
evolving thing, as I said,
so they constantly change.
Promo pieces.
What are the promotional
pieces we have for that client?
Because that's what we
develop for you guys.
Direct mail-- our direct
mail pieces, the work
in progress, because those
are things in the middle.
I don't know where
to put them yet.
They're just work in progress.
Workshops, they're laid out.
First workshop, CRM initiative,
whatever the workshops are,
we give it a name, and
then it's in the file.
So I can click, click, click.
I can find anything
on my computer.
And again, what's the
mother of invention?
Necessity is the
mother of invention.
>>LISA: So using some
of the techniques
that you've learned,
you take businesses now
to the next level.
But what are you
doing for Amanda?
What's your next level?
My goodness.
>>HOLMES: Oh my gosh.
>>LISA: That's a big one.
>>HOLMES: That's a big question.
>>LISA: Curveball.
Sorry.
>>HOLMES: No.
I mean, everything to me is
connecting to that higher
purpose, clearing out all
of my ego conversation
so that I can be the best
conduit of light and love.
That is my ultimate,
it's just, it's that.
And then whatever I
do outside of that
is just in the flow of serving.
>>LISA: You have a yoga
practice every day?
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: You do.
What do you do?
>>HOLMES: It turns
into anything.
It could be--
I mean, to me, yoga is
breath, alignment, just those
two things alone.
I mean, I'll be getting
a drink, and I'll, oh OK,
I'm better now.
But then in the morning,
I'll do my Sun Salutation.
And then when I'm
cooking food, I'll
then turn into a Warrior
One and a Warrior Two.
And it'll just--
I am always doing yoga.
It just feels that
it's always that way.
>>LISA: Always a
part of your life.
And then you went into a teacher
training of yoga as well.
What did you want
to do with that?
>>HOLMES: At the time,
I couldn't sit still.
>>LISA: OK.
Which you really can't either
anyway, but it doesn't matter.
>>HOLMES: Well, I felt that
I needed to be within myself
and I needed time to reflect.
And I'm very bad
at sitting still.
So to me, yoga teacher
training was, OK,
this is a healing
modality that I
can learn that I can
assist more people with.
And it'll help me in
the future, I'm sure.
I never would've
thought that it would've
helped me as much as it has.
>>LISA: How do you use it?
Do you teach yoga?
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: You do?
>>HOLMES: That's
just for fun though.
That's like in my
lunch break, I'll
go and help the
80-year-olds at the library
figure out how to
lift up their arm
and breathe because it's
so amazing how much breath
is important in life.
And yet people completely are
just not even aware of it.
>>LISA: Right.
Oh, it's huge.
What about in the beginning
of meetings or your work day?
How does that come into play?
Do you yoga in your meetings?
>>HOLMES: Oh, all the time.
>>LISA: Really?
That's great.
>>HOLMES: I've had this
really amazing turn where--
So as a singer/songwriter,
I would get into the flow,
and it would be this
creative, beautiful movement.
And I dance, too.
So I would feel it
from dance as well.
And I felt like that was
separate from my business life.
And I had my businessman hat on.
And then I would have
my creative hat on.
And at some point,
they merged into one.
So now I flow between
an email campaign
to singing on the piano
to then a yoga pose.
And it just feels
like I'm in the flow,
and I'm doing them all--
>>LISA: Constantly.
And then how do the rest
of the people, who've
been in the business for a
long time, experience that?
That's probably fun.
>>HOLMES: Yeah.
I mean, that's why
I work from home.
They can't see the crazy
that happens in my room.
I mean in my office.
>>LISA: That's great.
That's great.
That's a good way of doing it.
>>HOLMES: But I did, at our
most recent headquarter event,
I cooked everyone this rice
and lentil dish that I cured
my celiac disease with--
Or with my guru.
So I'll put little
things in there.
And I did yoga with
everybody to just get
them involved in
what that feels like.
And they all loved it.
And they all loved the
rice and lentil dish.
So it's creeping in.
>>LISA: You've cured
your own body from that?
>>HOLMES: Well, no.
With Guruji.
When I went to Asia,
I ate a monotone diet
of rice and lentils
for six weeks straight.
And what the doctors had said
I would never cure went away.
>>LISA: My goodness.
Just by the protein
and the starch and--
>>HOLMES: And the blessings.
I mean, every disease is caused
from a dis-ease of our mind.
And Guruji is a beautiful--
That's my mentor,
my teacher that
teaches me to let
go of those things
so that the physical can happen.
>>LISA: But you could probably
teach a version of that
as well.
>>HOLMES: I don't know.
>>LISA: Well, a version of that.
>>HOLMES: I mean, it
rebuilt my stomach lining.
I had holes.
I had leaky gut.
So all of my food would
go into my bloodstream,
and then I would
become allergic.
So that was a
pretty serious one.
>>LISA: Wow.
But that's amazing
that you then--
But you just mentioned.
You transcend the
physical with the mind.
>>HOLMES: Yes, huge.
Huge.
I wouldn't be alive.
I would be in white walls.
A loony bin, I would be
in a loony bin right now.
The mindset, the mindset,
the practice, the meditation.
>>LISA: Well, this
is another great clip
that we're going to look at
here with your father talking
about time management, where
it does come to emails.
So this is the mindfulness
where it comes back
into the business practice.
Take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: Email.
Let's talk about
email and the concept
of touch it once,
because email can
be the death of productivity.
Usually, you must use
really good subject lines
in your emails
because I don't open
an email unless I
can deal with it.
So it is absolutely required.
My staff, back me up.
How important is subject lines?
Right?
>>AUDIENCE: Very.
>>CHET HOLMES: You cannot send
me an email without a fantastic
subject line.
It's got to really
describe what it is.
And then I insist, by the
way, if the subject changes--
And they will get
nasty emails from me
with all capital letters in
the subject line, saying,
change the subject line to.
And I'll put the
new subject line.
Because what happens is you'll
get an email, and it'll say,
I know you wanted to
talk to Bill Johnson.
And I've set up a meeting
with Bill Johnson.
When did you want
to handle that?
So I'll answer back.
Then it'll come back.
And in the same email, we're
talking about Bill Johnson,
and it'll say, and by
the way, I got the budget
for the Tony Robbins' event.
So if you want to
see that, let me now.
So then I write back, and I
say, yeah, that'd be good,
but it still has Bill
Johnson in the subject line.
Right?
You know what I'm talking about.
You're all guilty of this.
And then 17 of these
things go back.
And one of those
files has the final.
I say, I don't need to
see the whole budget,
just tell me what
the bottom line is.
So one of 17 emails with Bill
Johnson in the subject line
has the budget item.
So now I need to go
find out what that--
What was that bottom line again?
And I'm opening 17 emails.
Happen to anybody here?
Right?
So you need to control that.
You need to have that.
Anybody I deal with--
I will teach clients it.
I'm obnoxious
because I have to be.
Those emails have to
have great subject lines.
And when the subject changes,
so does the subject line.
OK?
Here's a great one.
Unread.
Bring up at weekly meeting.
That's a subject line I
send back with some emails
because they come in.
And you know what?
I see it's this big long thing.
That's why I have
a weekly meeting,
so I don't have to sit there
and write three paragraphs back
to an email or even
read three paragraphs.
I will not read a
three paragraph email.
It's got to be a
sentence or two.
And I will send it back to a
subordinate, saying, unread.
Bring up at weekly meeting.
Because email is there
for my convenience,
I'm not going to
let it rule my life.
And it tries really hard.
Doesn't it guys?
Emails just overwhelm you.
It's so ridiculous.
So it can be the death
of good time management.
Companies that have
emails constantly
sounding when they come in put
everyone in a reactive mode,
unless that's your job.
You're customer service
for an electronics company,
where you answer emails all day.
I mean, if that's your
job, that's your job.
But supervisors
shouldn't be that.
And I can always tell
when someone is reactive.
I can tell you who on
my staff is reactive
and who isn't because
the ones who I've highly
trained over the years,
when you send them an email,
you don't hear back
from them for two hours
because it's not in
their schedule yet.
And I can tell you who they are.
I've got some of them.
And they're just like that.
They're fantastic.
They have their time managed.
And I, as the
owner, respect that.
And then I can tell you
the people who are just--
every time they get an email,
they stop what they're doing,
and they go and they
answer the email.
There was a recent
study done that
shows that if you let something
interrupt you all the time,
you lose the ability
to concentrate.
Concentration is like a muscle.
And you strengthen it,
and you strengthen it
by doing more and more of it.
So boy, I'll tell you.
When you've got to concentrate,
turn the email off.
Shut it down.
My computer has
this little thing
that comes up with
these little emails
in the corner, the
corner of the screen.
Do you have that?
And you're doing
something else and working
on this orientation
for this session.
And those little
emails are coming up.
And I had five days to
do this, I put aside.
And Tony messed with
me all through it,
just totally destroyed my time.
So the last three
days, basically, I just
shut off the emails.
Sorry, not going to
respond to this at all.
So set specific times
to respond to emails.
It's going to be
in your schedule,
and then you'll do it.
And by the way, if you
have a half an hour--
If you don't set a time,
and you open up your emails,
you've got 40 emails,
it can take three hours.
But if you only
have a half an hour,
it's amazing how you will
get through 40 emails
in a half an hour with one
word answers or unread,
bring up at weekly meeting.
That's my favorite response.
>>LISA: So what
we're watching here,
which is an amazing display
of your father's work,
you have provided
for us to give us
kind of an example
of what he taught.
Tell me about this
project for you.
>>HOLMES: Well,
it was huge for me
because, originally, we didn't
really serve the entrepreneur.
We didn't serve
the one man army.
And for me--
>>LISA: What did you serve?
>>HOLMES: Bigger
companies that usually
have a sales team or even just
a staff, more established.
And we realized that
so many entrepreneurs
came knocking on our doors.
And we're like, we're sorry.
We can't help you.
There's nothing we can do here.
So I went about taking all
of my father's content, hours
upon hours, and finding
the best of the best,
and then chunking into little 5
to 15 minute gems of just gold,
and putting it all into one
place online that actually
serves a smaller business
owner and the billionaire,
because the
billionaires have seen
multiple millions from
watching these videos.
It's amazing, but it also
affects an entrepreneur.
I feel so lucky that
I can bring that.
That's why I'm here
is to take that legacy
and assist people that
don't know any better,
don't know how to
manage their time.
Oh my gosh.
>>LISA: And don't know
how to do to-do lists
and never really were taught
how to work on the business
rather than in the business.
Yes, absolutely.
And so is this formed into
what you call the Chet Holmes
Institute?
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: And it's a
teaching grounds, right?
>>HOLMES: Yeah.
>>LISA: For people
to learn from.
>>HOLMES: Online
training, like Gaiam TV.
>>LISA: Yes, streaming
online training.
Absolutely.
Streaming online inspiration.
We're going to take a look
here at one of the last clips
here about really managing
those to-do lists.
So take a look.
>>CHET HOLMES: So
here's step number two.
You want to make lists.
Lists keep you on track.
OK.
Many people make lists as
a way of keeping organized.
Who here makes lists?
OK.
Good crowd.
Who here has really long
lists, 24 items, 22 items?
OK.
Let me teach you
a little secret.
You want to have only six
things on your daily list.
You might keep a
side list, like this,
of just a running
tally of things
that you know you're
going to have to do.
But for the day,
today, you only want
to have six things
on your schedule.
That's it, just six things.
And they want to be the
most important things
that you have to get done.
So step one is to write the
six most important things.
And why only six?
Because when you
have the long lists,
and you're not planning
your day, which we're
going to get into the
nitty-gritty of that,
what you'll tend to do is
look at the easy stuff.
You get a minute,
go to the list.
What can I just
pick off right now?
And the big things and
the important things, they
just get pushed off and
pushed off and pushed off.
So if you start your day with
the six most important things,
you will have a way
more productive day.
And if there's only six
and you get all six done,
there's a great psychological
impact at the end of the day.
So let's do it right now.
Let's pretend we're
planning tomorrow.
And you're not at the seminar.
And there's six most
important things
you have to do on Monday when
you get back to the office.
And there's only two pages.
Those two pages are going
to change your life.
So I don't want
you to plan when,
and I don't want you
to plan how much time.
I just want you to write the
six most important things
you have to do on Monday when
you get back to the office.
>>LISA: So if someone
who is watching
is an entrepreneur, they
want to start a business,
how do they begin, and
how could you help them?
>>HOLMES: I would say, my
father learned everything
that he charged hundreds
of thousands of dollars
before, he put into a $12 book.
>>LISA: Ah, great.
>>HOLMES: So that's
kind of hard to resist.
That's probably the first step.
And yeah, is "The
Ultimate Sales Machine."
After that, if you
want a little more,
if you want hands-on
help and even more
to just digest that
information, chetholmes.com
and the institute
will all be there.
>>LISA: A full,
complete package.
And if there's either personal
coaching or read the book,
you can do the online.
But either way, being an
entrepreneur in this day
and age is an incredibly
essential move,
even if you have
a full-time job,
you can start a side business
of selling dehydrated fruits
at farmers markets, and
you're an entrepreneur.
>>HOLMES: Everything is sales.
I mean, there are so many
different ways to sell.
You're selling--
Your daughter probably sells
you on different things
she wants every day.
>>LISA: Negotiates,
that's what she does.
>>HOLMES: Well, don't
give her that book,
because I'm sure she's
very good already.
>>LISA: But, yeah.
That's one of the
beautiful things
is you can explore your
passions in any way.
It doesn't mean you have
to quit your day job.
You can stick with what
you do, or it might even
be what you love.
But even as a student, you
can start something new.
You can grow a business
just by participating
in farmers markets.
I mean, there's so
many different things
that you can do.
And then it grows bigger
and bigger and bigger
because it's based
on serving people.
So you help people with that.
>>HOLMES: Yes.
>>LISA: Thank you.
Thank you very much
for helping us.
And if you would like to watch
the interview with my friend,
Amanda Holmes, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
Share it with your friends,
anyone who's an entrepreneur
or wants to learn more about
sales techniques and marketing
with the beautiful aspects of
spirituality and intuition.
Check out chetholmes.com.
All right.
Thank you so much.
And if you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Amanda, you can
go to gaiamtv.com.
Thank you so much.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.